rearrange user-guide (#130)
iter8-tools/docs: docs/user-guide/progressive-release/extending.md

---
template: main.html
---

# Extending progressive release to other deployment environments

The `release` chart can be easily extended to include other deployment environments. Please consider contributing any extensions to Iter8. We briefly describe how to extend the chart for an [Knative](https://knative.dev/docs/) application. 

## Approach

> Modify the release chart after forking the [Iter8 project](https://github.com/iter8-tools/iter8). The chart to be extended is in the `charts/release` sub-folder. The file `release.yaml` is the starting point. For each valid environment, the chart contains a set of files defining the resources that should be created.  These may include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modify the release chart after forking the [Iter8 project](https://github.com/iter8-tools/iter8). The chart to be extended is in the `charts/release` sub-folder. The file `release.yaml` is the starting point. For each valid environment, the chart contains a set of files defining the resources that should be created. These may include:
```

Reviewer: I wonder if it's necessary to mention forking the Iter8 project. I think this passage could probably be shortened.
```suggestion
The progressive release chart can be found in the `charts/release` sub-folder of the Iter8 GitHub repository. The file `release.yaml` is the starting point. For each valid environment, the chart contains a set of files defining the resources that should be created.  These may include:
```

> - the application object(s)

Reviewer: I don't like the "the" at the beginning but I could see why you may want it.

- [routemaps](../routemap.md) for different traffic patterns
- configmaps used to specify request distribution (blue-green pattern only)
- a service defining a common entry for requests (if needed)

Note that the file naming helps identify related template files.

## Example (Knative Service)

For example, to implement a blue-green release for Knative services, the following files could be added.

> - `_knative-istio.tpl` - describing the application objects should be deployed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `_knative-istio.tpl` - describing the application objects that should be deployed
```

> - `_knative-istio.tpl` - describing the application objects should be deployed
> - `_knative-istio.version.ksvc.tpl` - describe the Knative service object that should be deployed for a version
> - `_knative-istio.blue-green.tpl` - identifies any objects that should be deployed to support the blue-green traffic pattern
> - `_knative-istio.blue-green.routemap.tpl` - the routemap definition
> - `_knative-istio.service.tpl` - a supporting external service
> - `_knative.helpers.tpl` - some supporting functions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `_knative-istio.tpl` - the application objects should be deployed
- `_knative-istio.version.ksvc.tpl` - the Knative service object that should be deployed for a version
- `_knative-istio.blue-green.tpl` - any other objects that should be deployed to support the blue-green traffic pattern
- `_knative-istio.blue-green.routemap.tpl` - the routemap definition
- `_knative-istio.service.tpl` - a supporting external service
- `_knative.helpers.tpl` - supporting functions
```

Reviewer: These should ideally be consistent, either have a verb with the same conjugation or just forgo it all

An implementation of these is [here](https://github.com/iter8-tools/docs/tree/v0.18.11/samples/knative-bg-extension).

Finally, update `release.yaml` to include `knative-istio` as a valid option:

```tpl
{{- else if eq "knative-istio" .Values.environment }}
  {{- include "env.knative-istio" . }}
```

## Extend the controller

The Iter8 controller will need to be extended to give permission to Iter8 to watch Knative service objects. Configure the deployment of the controller to enable this, (re-)install the controller using the following additional options:

```shell
--set resourceTypes.ksvc.Group=serving.knative.dev \
--set resourceTypes.ksvc.Version=v1 \
--set resourceTypes.ksvc.Resource=services \
--set "resourceTypes.ksvc.conditions[0]=Ready"
```

## Using the modified chart

> Reference the location of the local copy of the chart instead of using the `--repo` and `--version` options. For example assuming the location is `$CHART`, a deployment of 2 versions of the Knative `hello` service with a 30-70 traffic split would be:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reference the location of the local copy of the chart instead of using the `--repo` and `--version` options. For example assuming the location is `$CHART`, a deployment of two versions of the Knative `hello` service with a 30-70 traffic split would be:
```
